---
layout: post
title:  "Fall 2023: Open Data"
author: 
categories: [ news, open-data ]
image: assets/images/icons_big/open_data_term.svg
headimage: no
featured: no
subtitle: Fall is the season of open data!
---

Fall 2023 is the **season of OPEN DATA** at OSOH! Every month we'll cover a theme touching on Open Data best practices, with handpicked experts on deck to lead workshops and offer one-on-one help. Join us for an exciting series of events exploring best practices for data management, data sharing and re-using of open datasets.

More details about the thematic months, experts and events are released in separate posts as each month approaches.

### September 2023
#### Intro Data Management and Sharing
Learn how to make your lives easier with good data management and data sharing. Become a pro in the FAIR principles 
and, in sharing research data with the McGill Institutional Repository (Dataverse). The OSOH expert for the month is Alisa Rod, Research Data Management 
Secialist at McGill Library.
<div class="d-flex justify-content-left">
  <a href="{{site.baseurl}}/september-open-data" class="btn btn-dark text-light px-5 btn-lg"
    style="background-color:rgb(255, 255, 255, .2)">More info!</a>
</div>

### October 2023
#### Data Standards: The Brain Imaging Data Structure (BIDS) - not just for MRI data!
Learn how you can get started with using data standards to organize your work. We will discuss the advantages of BIDS 
for Data management and Sharing, how to get started with BIDS, and how to participate in the BIDS community to expand 
it for more data types. 
<div class="d-flex justify-content-left">
  <a href="{{site.baseurl}}/october-open-data" class="btn btn-dark text-light px-5 btn-lg"
    style="background-color:rgb(255, 255, 255, .2)">More info!</a>
</div>

### November 2023
#### Big Data: How to find, access and (re-)use Open Datasets
Large open datasets are increasingly available and could complement your work to make it more impactful, or avoid 
data collection all together. Learn important tips and tricks to find, access, and use existing open data 
(e.g., UK BioBank).
<div class="d-flex justify-content-left">
  <a href="{{site.baseurl}}/november-open-data" class="btn btn-dark text-light px-5 btn-lg"
    style="background-color:rgb(255, 255, 255, .2)">More info!</a>
</div>

### December 2023
#### Dataset tracking and version control with Datalad
Become fluent in Datalad, a tool that enables you to track and version control your datasets as they grow 
and evolve, making it easier to collaborate with others. Datalad is further increasingly used to get access to open 
datasets on the web. 
<div class="d-flex justify-content-left">
  <a href="{{site.baseurl}}/december-open-data" class="btn btn-dark text-light px-5 btn-lg"
    style="background-color:rgb(255, 255, 255, .2)">More info!</a>
</div>
